

It's really hard to articulate what means. My only uggestion is that you have to visit the country.

Two cities ago at Astana, we came upon this guy who worked.

Kunal is staying under the speed limit and because he wants to avoid trouble with the polive. At the moment, he has only been stopped five time.


Nevendra ma

P.T.Narendran is Akmaral's Guru.

Guru Nevendra. is the sort of p

Yesterday, we spent the day running

Yesterday, we spent the day with the Dance master Narendran,

I have zero association to indian dance. I've never seen indian

I never imagined that my first encounter with Indian Dance would be in Kazakhstan.

I sorta expected to see

The first person on the list.

The encounter was pretty random. The way it unfolded kinda went list this.

My first encounter with Indian Dance wasn't in India, but in Almaty, Kazakhstan. Yesterday we dropped into a school operated by a Akamal Kainazarova. I arrived with the team to this school across the street from some crazy looking administrative building. There, we were in a room with india decordations all over the walls. Akamal introduced the team to her class. Most the strudents are KAzakh and one . One person

"Chicka Taka tiki ta ta"

Akmal had inited nevendrea o master class conducted by the great PT Navendran. Navendrea is a famous indian dance master and travells the world teaching. H

Everyone speaks english. turns out it mandatory:
English, Russian, Kazakh
People are friendly and in fact go out of their way to help you. They will not hesitate to.





I can't tell what Akamal's age was, but she clearly had experience and postire. She didn't seem espcially athetic, but


After the class, we went to the Spice Mantra, which co-exists with Shooters. There it was another round of indian food.

Proir to the journey, Devanshi's family friend who had done the drive 3 years ago offered the observation that Kazastan had the most welcoming people. For sure, they observation holds true. It's tough to really understand what atruly hospitable culture is without experiencing and seeing first hand.

The back story behind this visit is the sort of thing that would only happen on a journey like this. Back in Astana, we ran into a man stading at a bus stop. He suggested that we meet with some dude. Durning the call, hesuggested hat we could. T

Prior to My impression of Indian dance has only come from Bollywood movies. So when  Akamaral introduced us to Classical Indian

, but I've seen clips in passing. From what I gather, there's a lot of dancing, smiling and gesticulating. The only

--

Indian dance wasn't something that I expected to encounter in Almaty. But after a string of encounters, we ended up observing a master class at hosted by a high school across the street from the some admin building. When we got there, we couldn't find the entrance to the gated school. We stopped several passer-bys and asked for directions, fully expecting to play a game of chardes. Surprisingly, every single person we stopped spoke fluent english.

Akamaral introduced us to the class, explaining we were wonderful people doing a wonderful project. I felt a little bit wierd about being called wonderful. But anyway. The Master class was conducted by this Nevendra guy. Kunal told me that he's really famous in his circle. And if you look him up on wiki pedia, he's kinda a big deal. So

The instrcture

Nevendra explained several times the progression of a dancer is limitless, and the most diffiult part of dance is not the physical movment andto express emothion and. He further explained that the main difference between Bollywood dancing vs Classical dance is that in Bollywood dance, the dancer follows a set sequence and effectively shows and displays an emotion. For classical dance, the emotion is supposed to come within.

After the class we introduced to the dancers. Most where kazakh, one came from china. They all seem to speak english faily well.

Neither Kunal, Devanshi nor I have any association with Classical Indian Dance. This encounter started when the Nissan Versa's tire pressure sensor indicator lit up. The natual thing to do in this instnace is to get a tire inflator. So Kunal gets a tire inflator and plugs it into the cigarette lighter to inflate the tire. I guess that drew too much power and we blew a fuse. Next, Kunal goes and finds a Nissan dealership to check it out. and it was indeed a blownfuse. So as they were waiting for "repairs" Kunal and Devanshi walks by a bus stop where an indian looking man was standing. So kunal walks over and starts chatting with him. This guy was

It's not every day you see an Indian at the roadside waiting for the bus in Astana so Kunal walks over and chats with him. He suggested going to this fusion guru restaurant. Once at the restaurant, they meet the owner. Manger gets a call from the embassy for a catered event. Kunal invited himself to the event. At the event Kunal met the Indian Ambassador to Kazakhstan, Some Kazakh Officials, and a delegation of Indian dancers including Nevendra and Akamral. That night, the team had dinner with







If you're wondeing how on earth we arrived at that school, the sequence of events are as random and winding as is gets. Several days ago, en route to Astana, our check tire pressure light flashed on. We went ahead and bought of of those tire inflators cigarette lighter powered tire inflater. After running a bit, we blew a fuse. Since we didn't have any spares, we brought the car over to the Astana Nissan Service center.

Normally, seeing an Indian looking man standing at a bus stop would be utterly unremarkable. But in Kazakhstan, we had to stop and chat. Naturally, the ma

Taking a stroll down the street, we encountered an Indian man waiting for the bus. Walking downWhile we waited for the fixthem to fix the problem, we went for a walk. . Walking down he street, he saw an indian looking man standing at bus stop. It turns out that the guy was Indian and they chatted in Hindi for a while. He suggested checking out a restaurant called Five Fusion. At the restaurant, Kunal met the manager. While they were talking, the manager received a call from the secratary to the  Indian Ambassador about catering a event the followinf day. Kunal effectively invites himself over. Athe event, Knal meets the delegation from India, and several Kazakhs with some ties to the indian community in Kazakhstan. At the same time, there the local Kazakh community presetned a Indian Dance perfornace.

Cheers,
Stephen



As I was pondering to myself as to how it was that these dances could rememeber all these moves, Navendran explained that the most difficult aspect of the dance was not the physical movements, but to embody the thoughts and mind of the story. I imagine it's abit like getting into the character in acting.



===

Dear Friends,

As I begin this message, I am sitting in the passenger seat en-route to Horgos from Zarkent, near the China-Kazakhstan border. Prior to the journey, we met some people who had travelled our route 2 years ago. One thing I remembered from their stories was that they felt Kazakhs were nicest and warmest people on the entire trip. I agree with that sentiment.



I didn't expect my first encounter with Indian Classical Dance to be in Almaty, Kazakhstan. The Kazakh Indian Dance Institute runs class at State School #92, across the street from the "Foundation of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan". Founder and primary instructor Akamaral typically teaches class, but on the day we visited, a special guest and dance Master Shri P. T. Narendran taught a master class.

When we arrived, Akamaral interrupted the class and introduced our team as "wonderful people on a wonderful mission." Wow. I've never thought our road trips could invoke complements like those. I'm use to a more subdued introduction, like "these foolish Americans are doing this this crazy road trip."  Once we seated ourselves, Narendran resumed chanting cues to the dancers.



The lyrics to the dance were in Tamul. On each syllable, the Kazakh dancers moved in unison, shifting between postures. From what I gathered, each movement combined complex footwork, subtle hand gestures and face expressions. Narendran at one point turned to us, apologized, and said that the dance was new choreography so the movements were a bit rough. If the dancers were new to the sequence, I couldn't tell. I can't for the life of me understand how dancers learn long sequences of movements so quickly. It seems like a pretty common skill among dancers that mortals like me do not possess. Last i did this sort of thing, I think it took me 3 months to learn 3 minutes of movement.

The students were learning to dance the story of Ganesh, Murgun, and the heavenly Mango. The slow, fat, elephant god Ganesh travels by foot, while  Murgan blazes around on a peacock. Their father Shiva offered a heavenly mango to the first to complete a circle around the world. Murgen was expected to win, but as with the Tortoise and Hare, wisdom and cunning beats athletic prowess.



None of us have any association whatsoever with Indian Classical Dance, let alone Indian Classical Dance in Kazakhstan. We met Akamaral and Nevendra at the end of a sequence of coincidences that started back in Astana. One day, we were walking down the road and we bumped into an Indian man standing at a bust stop. The man invited us to eat at the Fusion Guru Indian restaurant. There, we met the manager and overheard a conversation he was having with the Indian embassy about an event. We invited ourselves over to the event, where we met the Indian ambassador, who introduced us to Akamaral and Nevendran.

In New York, I don't ever recall having a conversation with a stranger and inviting them to lunch. I can definitely learn a thing or two from Kazakh hospitality.

Cheers,
Stephen
