Dear Friends,

On my last road trip from NY to Bolivia, I wrote periodic emails to update friends/family with stories from the road. I got some positive feedback from that so i figure i'd continue doing this from NY to India. Please let me know if you'd like to be taken off the list. I won't be offended.

I begin writing this message from cafe "Costa" located near the arrival gates at terminal 4, in London Heathrow. It's about 11:00AM and i'm waiting for the rest of the NyToMumbai team to arrive. I haven't slept in the last 36 hours, I am struggling to stay awake.

I have yet to see an adventure go according to plan. This time around, the plan disintegrated days before we even set foot onto Europe.

The original plan was to start toward India tomorrow, August 26th. We shipped our car from Newark on August 2nd to arrive on August 23rd in Liverpool. Two days before our departure, we received notice from the shipping agent that our vessel has been delayed due to a problem with the lifeboat deployment system.

I don't know much about lifeboat deployment systems, but clearly there's more to it than making sure that there enough air in the rafts and that ropes are tight. The ship was scheduled to depart from Halifax on Aug 15th, but 8 days later it's still sitting at the port. They told us that if the repairs were completed by Aug 23rd, the ship *may* reach Liverpool on Sept 1st.

The ship arriving on Sept 1st means we can pickup the car on Friday, Sept 2nd - 7 day delay. If the boat arrives on Sept 2nd, then the earliest we can get the car is Monday Sept 5th - 10 day delay.

It looks like we'll be hanging around London the next week waiting for updates from the shipping company.

Stuck in London,
Stephen


The drive to Mumbia starts with drivers and a car. Well the drivers are here, the car is not.

Taking a flight somewhere around the world is pretty straightforward. At most you'll be delayed a couple hours. But when it comes to shipping cars across the atlantic, it's a compeltely different story. We had put oue vehicle on ACL 230. ACL 230 departed Newark on Aug 15, and was scheduled to arrive at Aug 25. The day before we left (Yesterday) the shipping company told us that ACL's departure from its current port, Halifax, has been delayed and is about 6 days behind schedule.

====

everything is so small. everything is small
