MYanmarr


change in instratracuture, drastic.
preople look very different
roads stink
guide said that we will be very suprised.
lussh green
sudden heavy rain
tourism offficial
plates 3 colors
their driving into the night
car broke down
breatuful scenery

border was lax




Tomorrow Will Be a big Surprise

Dear Friends,

After spending the last 3 weeks, today we crossed into Myanmar. Like many land borders I've crossed before, there was a drastic shift in crossing the border.

The exit process was much more stright forward than the entrance process. It only took BOUT 2 hours.

The border was lax and. It seemed like the process would

When we arrived, our escort greeted us on the other side. The man was tall and

The process only took about 7 hours. Turned out that the invitation letter they drew up stated that we were 3 americans when we were 2 americans and 1 indian.

We set off ar around 3. The first stop was to pickup our paperwork. The second



Dear Friends,

As I begin writing this note, I am sitting at a desk in a hotel in Lashio, Myanmar. Their wifi is secured with the un-crackable password 'myanmar123' and their elevator smells like mothballs. Despite that, I'm pretty sure the Golden Hill Hotel is the nicest this city has to offer because our car is parked out front, amid 15 new and expensive looking MSF Land cruisers and Highluxes. This morning I met one guy who worked for the state Department and one who word for USAID. This is clearly a departure from the typical hostel crowd we mingle with.

Lashio is about 200 km from Muse. Along the way, we saw impressive trpoical green landscape and scenery, reminiscent of Guatemala. But the roads connecting these 2 cities were by far the worst we've seen so far. Kunal spent the 6 hours swerving around pot holes and road craters. We wound up and down the mountain, sharing a one lane "highway" with aggressive trucks and death-wish motorcyclists. We were supposed to be driving in the daylight, but a delay with Devanshi's paperwork push back our departure by 5 hours or so.

 The moment we started driving, the weather quickly shifted from bright and sunny, to torrential downpour. At first, we drove carefully, but as the hours ground on, the drivers grew impatient and we started to plow right through some of these potholes. I was thinking that all the strain on our car would cause some problem, but I was pretty surprised when the first car to give out was neither our nissian Versa, not team UK's camper van. It was the escorts Toyota HiAce.

The 2 goevernemnt officials each joined [Dude] joined us in our car.

 started with poor visibility. In the beginning, both our car and the camper van drove carefully to avoid pot holes. But eventually, I think team UK got impatient and started just driving over everything. With all the banging and knocking, I was expecting one of our cars may experience a problem.

[drive]

Heavy rain

With all the banging on our car, I was exepecting maybe one of our cars would have some problem. Much to my surprise, 2 hours into the trip, the Myanmar delegation riding in a toyota hiave stoppand and reported that their car was having problems and would have to join us in our car.


So far the road hazards include aggressive bus drivers, yaks, and cars broken down in middle of the road, invisible in the dark because they don't use warning trianles.





This meant we had to travse these shitty roads in the dark.

This meant driving on a single, poorly paved road among agressive trucks and motorcycles

  and Motocyclists who seem to have a deathwish. Not only do these motocycles and scooters swerve around in traffic, they don't bother turning on their headlamps.

bouncing along a single lane highway, manuvering around potholes and road craters, and dodging motorcycles who don't turn on their headlamps.

The roads between the border town Muse and Lashio were somewhere between unpaved and barely paved. We spent a good 6 hours bouncing along the mountain road, manuvering around potholes and road craters. We were supposed to send the day driving the 200 or so km, but a 4 hour delay at the Myanmar border resulted us having to traverse these shitty roads in the dark.

As we bounced along the road, the governemnt official appointed to us from the Myanmar tourism beauro, turned to us and said in broken english.

me: "So what's tomorrow's drive going to be like?"
guide: (with a grin) "Tomorrow Big surprise"
me: "What do you mean?"
guide: "Lashio Mandalay Big surprise long time road"
me: "you mean the roads conditions are worse than these?"
guide: (draws a hill in the air with his finger) "Lashio Mandalay long time"
me: "you mean the roads conditions are worse than these?"
guide: (laughs) "Big surprise"

Todays roads were tough. They weren't Westerb Kazkhastan tough, but they were a clear departure from the roads we have seen so far in the last 10 countries or so.


The official wasn't originally supposed to be in our car. We

So far, the roads we have taken for the journey were pretty smooth. Myanmaar will be the first cuontry where the highways connecting cities are barely paved, and full of pot holes. We drove up and down the mountain side



the things I see here are extremely different. I didn't get a chance to send any updates about china for a variety of reasons. Mostly it was the fact that our schedule was so packed, finding time to write was tough. I do think it's worth sharing some of the expereinces though so i'll probably do that later.

Earlier in the day, we crossed the China Myanmar border from Ruili to Muse. On the chinese side, it was fairly straightforward. Abby, our chinese guide handled all the processing. Abby had travelled with us the last 21 days in china and had essentially eveolved from a guide to teammate.

Once we cleared the border we finally set off into Myanmar. From the beginning we could feel that the country was dusty. The infrastructue was far less developed than china, and the people looked very different.



[describe drive]

[]




Crossing into Myanmar was kinda the


The Myanmar border is nothing like the China border. going through the steps was reminicient of centrak american  countytird
