drive to baroda
added another mmeber
mnet up with Dayal in navsari
arrived at a rural place
What did I expect?
After learning that the founders were an architect and Investment banker
I had a feeling that the places wouldn't be horrid, it would have decent facility
They share the space with a hospital
the place was pretty basic. Concrete structure
we all slept in a room
kunal's mom was still sick

What conversations did you have?
what was kunal's impression?

meeting the girls?
meeting the founders?
meeting the teachers?

learned what?

The founder explained alot of stuff to us:
- how to select students
- how school was founded
- they are doers not planers
- open teaching style
- stuends return home to seek out poartners with eduication
-
animal husbandry
math science

ask block printing
they were into science and math?
teacher explained that maybe it's cuz they feel that's what they're supposed to dsay

animals come by to eat food
they treat animals like equals.


============================
Kedi School

[layout how we discovered Kedi School]

Kunal saw it as a personal journey
Devanshi proposed the charity
I didn't really care.
At the time. hey were insistent on it being an indian charity.
NytoMumbai was originally invisioned to be a personal drive from NY to India.
After Africa, Kunal was keen on seeing if he could execute a similar project.
When Kunal initially proposed the road trip project to from New York To India, he framed it as a personal project.
After some research, Devanshi proposed that we support Kedi School.
This time around, Since I was taking a back seat, I was totally up

The New York To Mumbai rally was a departure from the typical Last Responders ambulance project.
Months ago, Devanshi proposed raising money for a school in the Valsad district Gujrat, India.
Kunal explained that within the Gujrat community, it was common knowledge that rural communities in this area are very poor.
Responding to that, the founders of Kedi School formed their school to offer education to poor tribal girls.
Over the course of the journey, I discovered the vast disparaty between what would be considered a normal "socialized" member of socierty and village people.
I also discovered that the concept of "Tribal" is actually very specific. In fact, it is an official desigantation, THat along with the idea of backward.




I basically trusted Devanshi to pick a good cause, and went with it.
I had no clue as to why we picked Kedi school over some other charity, but to me, that was part of the
But my thought is always that I would arrive at the charity and really decide whether this


Travelling through India, I discovered that in india "tribal" was not a normal adjective.
In fact, it is an official social construct.
I'm not exactly sure what it's meant in this context, but I realized that this toye of categorization is completely out of my spectyrum, I should not expect to understand the subtleties of what a Tribal Giurl was, of what a "Backward Class" was. However as we approached the school, I couldn't help but to wonder to my self:

I debated at length about



After arriving in india, I started noticing several things.




Throughout the jkounrey, Kunal and Devanshi described what they knew of Kedi School, but since they've never actually been there or met the founders, I didn't have much of an impresson of the school.





Throughout the journey, no matter how many times Kunal and Devnashi described Kedi School, I still didn't really understand what set them apart from any other Indian charity.
I'll be perfectly honest and chalk it up to ignorance: I have no idea what Valsad is like. I have no idea what tribal girls were. I have no idea what the current state. I had many quetsionbs in my head:

After travelling through the country, I discovered that there are a couple concepts that I really didn't grasp.
First, India's caste system runs deep.
It's not engrained into my mind.
But a "Tribal" girl means something very specific. Just as a "Backward" means something very specific.

-Why Kedi school?
-Why are Tribal girls?
-What are tribal girls?
-If Kedi School is a highschool, how do you account for the variable level of incoming students?
-Does Kedi school charge the students?
-What is the what does Kedi school envision for their students? Join the work force?
-It seems to me like




All that being said, I felt fortunate that I would have the opportunity to witness for myself what this school was about.

To be honest, I didn't have much of an opinion about it.
Kunal told me that this area is known to be poor.
and was known to be particularly poor and underprivleged.

At the time, I had no idea where Valsad was, nor did I really understand what tribal girls were.
I took it on face value that this school did good work, and that I was not in a position to judge.
One of the main motivations surrounding these projects is that each team member should at the end observe and ask questions about the charity and arrive at his own conclusions as to whether the work is important.

Questions that came up:
As we neared the Kedi school, I started wondering to myself:


I vaguely surmised that this school generally delivered education to an underserved community.


I must guiltily admit that this charity didn't leave me with much an impression.
I had no idea what Valsad was, what Tribal Girls.




When I probed for some more information on the matter, I was



 in India that focused on bringing education to tribal girls.
To me, selecting Kedi school was sorta like picking a charity out of a hat




Months ago, Devanshi approached the team and proposed that the project raise money for a charity called "Kedi School".

I asked him whether the journey would be a personal trip, or a charity rally and at the time he wexplain that it would be personal.
At the time, devanshi had pitch the idea that the a charitable angle would be attractive.
When I probed them about what sort of charity, she was a bit uncertain, but was conviniced it made sense to support an indian charity.
For the reasons A month or so later, Kunal and Devanshi proposed supporting Kedi School.
At the time, I wasn't exactly sure why, but since it was their project, I was okay with it.
At the time, the drive did not have a charity tilt, I think mostly because they did not wrap the idea around their head that it could.
It did take some time to settle on the idea that we could incorporate a cause into the journey.
Kunal And Devanshi settled on KEDI school.
At the time, I wasn't exactly sure what this chool did, I was also not clear as top and raise money for a charity.
Over the courpse or planning and the drive, Kunal and Devnashi described things that they did.
But i was never really sure what was going on with these jokers.
Desipte all the projects I do, I am honestly a skeptic. I had a long debate with Devnahsi's father about the idea An inherent disconnect as to why this school lifts these Tribal girls out of poverty
What about opportunity?



[Arrival]
We arrived as a team.

With us was: Kunal's Mom, Devanshi's family, and her fiend

On Nov XXX, we arrived in two cars. Kunal, his mom,  Devnashi, her family and a family friend.


 in the middle of the night. It took some time to find the school since by the time we neared the town, night as fallen and our driving speak falls to like 20 miles per hour.
When we arrive, we came upon a cluster of buildings pretected by a large gate. The place was quiet, and reminded me of sleep away camps.
That night, I asked around to get a sense as to what the team was expecting.
Kunal:
The following morning, I was surprised to discover that they

At the time, several  questions came to mind about INdian education in general.
I poksed this quetison to Devanshi's parents.

 To me there was this tenstion between What should indian education provide vs what. The notion of standards

We discussed what the liklihood of bringing students up to speed


[Meeting the kids and founder]

[closing thoughts]

The School is tucked away in the rural Dharampur.

The entire project was conceived largely for personal reasons: Indial and Devanshi were indian.


I wasn't too clear on the collaboration between our organization and their so I was eager to really understand what this finish line was going to look like.


Over
 were not sure exactly what the plan would be.
However, it was clear that they did want to incorperate a charitible mission into their project.
Over the following months, I would hear bits and peices about what Kedi school was and . From what I gathered, they were not very well orgainzed.
it took significant time to even get pictures and stuff to get a better udnerstanding as to what they were doing. I caught several glimpses of the girls.
I asked how come they weren't doing homework.
As much as I was kinda joking, I also felt like student were behind, I would tihnk that the only way to catch up was through rigours hard work.
HGow can you remain comptitive if you don't have an inkling of competition?
Can you really catch up by coasting?
maybe i didn't get to see everythibng

They had sewing, knitting rooms. The following morning, I was invited to watch the milk man work the animals. What i observed was the milk person milk the cows while the girls watched.


The following morning, I came down to see

Curcy roads and the night fall made finding the school was challening.

Kedi School was founded in 2001 by XXX and YYY. They built their careers in California a Investment nbanking and archtectre. Kunal explained to me that this group was identified by a family friend. At the beginning of the joun
[my thoughts on supporting charities]
[devanshi's thought on supporting international charities]
[conversation about charities]

[arriving at the school and thoughts]
[describe the school]

[Meeting founder XXX meeting founder YYY]

[conversations about the school]

[My thougts on charity.]

We walked around and.
